# Waltz 1.3

Release: 20 April 2017

## Features

The majority of changes in this release are centered around 
three main new features:


### Surveys

Surveys allow for the collection of ad-hoc data within 
the overall structure of Waltz.  Surveys are focused on a 
specific entity type (e.g. APPLICATION, CHANGE_INITIATIVE) 
and issued to users matching a given set of roles describing 
their involvement with the entity.  The set of target entities
for the survey is derived from a Waltz selection mechanism 
(e.g. apps under a specific organisational unit, apps performing
a specific function etc.).


### Flow Diagrams

Flow Diagrams allow users to visually illustrate how data flows
between applications (and actors).  Unlike the existing logical 
flow view these diagrams can show the full upstream and downstream 
flows.    


### Physical Specification Definitions

In 1.2 flows of information between applications was captured at the 
logical and physical levels.  However the physical aspect only captured
high level information such as the file name and frequency.  In 1.3 we
allow detailed descriptions of the files contents to be defined.  This may
be versioned and associated to instances of the physical flow.

## Other

### Major schema changes

Changes to existing tables are listed below:

- Physical flows are now directly owned by logical flows.
  - added: `logical_flow_id`
  - dropped: `target_entity_id/kind`
- The `flow_decorator` table became `logical_flow_decorator`
  - added `last_updated_by/at`
- Logical flows have a _soft delete_ flag field (`is_removed`)


### Detail

See all [150+ Changes](https://github.com/khartec/waltz/milestone/49?closed=1) 
in the GitHub project 

